OFFICE OF CAREER SERVICES
Harvard University • Harvard College and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences
54 Dunster Street • Cambridge, MA 02138
Telephone: (617) 495-2595 • www.ocs.fas.harvard.edu
GSAS: CVs and Cover Letters
CVs and Cover Letters
SA
S: G
ra du
at e
St ud
en t I
nf or
m at
io n
© 2019 Harvard University All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced in any way without the express written permission of the Harvard University Faculty of Arts & Sciences Office of Career Services. 8/19
Office of Career Services Harvard University Faculty of Arts & Sciences Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone: (617) 495-2595 www.ocs.fas.harvard.edu
Every graduate student needs a curriculum vitae, or CV Your CV represents your accomplishments and experience as an academic and helps to establish your professional image. Well before you apply for faculty positions, you will use your CV to apply for fellowships and grants, to accompany submissions for publications or conference papers, when being considered for leadership roles or consulting projects, and more. CV’s are also used when applying for some positions outside academia, such as in think tanks or research institutes, or for research positions in industry.
As you progress through graduate school, you will, of course, add to your CV, but the basic areas to include are your contact information, education, research experience, teaching experience, publications, presentations, honors and awards, and contact information for your references, or those people willing to speak or write on your behalf.
Some formatting pointers:  There is no single best format. Refer to samples for ideas, but craft your CV to best reflect you
and your unique accomplishments.  Unlike a resume, there is no page limit, but most graduate students’ CVs are two to five pages in
length. Your CV may get no more than thirty seconds of the reader’s attention, so ensure the most important information stands out. Keep it concise and relevant!
 Be strategic in how you order and entitle your categories. The most important information should be on the first page. Within each category, list items in reverse chronological order. Category headings influence how readers perceive you. For example, the same experience could belong in a category entitled: “Service to the Field,” “Conferences Organized,” or “Relevant Professional Experience.”
 Use active verbs and sentence fragments (not full sentences) to describe your experiences. Avoid pronouns (e.g. I, me), and minimize articles (a, and, the). Use a level of jargon most appropriate for your audience. Keep locations, dates and less important information on the right side of the page – the left side should have important details like university, degree, job title, etc.
 Stick to a common font, such as Times New Roman, using a font size of 10 to 12 point. Use highlighting judiciously, favoring bold, ALL CAPS, and white space to create a crisp professional style. Avoid text boxes, underlining, and shading; italics may be used in moderation. Margins should be equal on all four sides, and be ¾ to 1 inch in size.
 And most importantly…Follow the conventions of your field! Different academic disciplines have different standards and expectations, especially in the order of categories. Check out CVs from recent graduates of your department, and others in your field, to ensure you are following your field’s norms.
Tailor your CV to the position, purpose, or audience “Why should we select YOU?” – That is the question on the top of your reader’s mind, so craft your CV to convince the reader that you have the skills, experience, and knowledge they seek. Depending on the purpose, you might place more or less emphasis on your teaching experience, for example. Also, keep an archival CV (for your eyes only!) that lists all the details of everything you’ve done – tailor from there.
Getting Started with CVs and Cover Letters
Achievement Administrative Communication Creative Financial accelerated arranged addressed authored allocated accomplished channeled arbitrated changed analyzed achieved charted articulated conceived appraised activated collated briefed constructed audited attained collected communicated created balanced competed coordinated conducted developed budgeted earned dispensed contacted devised calculated effected distributed conveyed drafted compiled elicited established corresponded established computed executed executed delivered formulated controlled exercised implemented demonstrated founded disbursed expanded installed edited illustrated estimated expedited maintained entertained influenced figured generated offered interviewed introduced financed improved ordered informed invented forecasted increased outlined lectured launched projected insured performed mediated originated reconciled marketed prepared negotiated revamped tabulated mastered processed persuaded revised obtained provided presented staged Technical produced purchased promoted updated adapted reduced recorded proposed visualized adjusted reorganized rendered publicized applied reproduced served reported built restructured serviced represented computed simplified sourced responded Research/Analytical constructed sold supported suggested assessed designed solicited translated compared diagnosed streamlined Lead/Manage wrote critiqued engineered succeeded acquired defined experimented upgraded administered derived maintained
approved Plan/Organize detected modified assigned allocated determined operated
Help/Teach chaired anticipated discovered prescribed advised contracted arranged evaluated programmed clarified controlled catalogued examined proved coached decided categorized explored reinforced collaborated delegated classified found repaired consulted directed collected inspected resolved counseled enlisted consolidated interpreted restored educated governed convened investigated solved explained handled edited located specified facilitated initiated eliminated measured systematized guided instilled employed observed tested helped instituted gathered predicted united instructed managed grouped rated modeled motivated monitored recommended participated presided organized researched taught recruited planned reviewed trained retained regulated searched tutored reviewed scheduled studied
selected structured surveyed shaped summarized verified supervised targeted
Describe Your Experiences with these Action Verbs
BENJAMIN F. GOLDFARB 617-987-0000 bgoldfarb@fas.harvard.edu http://scholar.harvard.edu/bgoldfarb
EDUCATION
Harvard University, Cambridge, MA PhD, Architecture, Landscape Architecture, and Urban Planning, expected May 2019.
Dissertation: “A City Within a City: Community Development and the Struggle Over Harlem, 1961-2001.” Committee: Profs. Priya Kapoor, Alexi Kovalev, Sunan Demir, and LeVaughn King.
Harvard College, Cambridge, MA BA, summa cum laude, Visual and Environmental Studies, Phi Beta Kappa, June 2010.
Thesis: “Learning from Laurel Homes: The Social Role of Architectural Meaning in American Public Housing.” Advisor: Professor Ericka Popescu.
RESEARCH AND TEACHING INTERESTS
Social, cultural, and political history of the American built environment Twentieth-century United States history History and theory of modern architecture and planning History of African-American urbanization Race and the design professions American urban policy Social movements Community-based organizations
PUBLICATIONS
“Governing at the Tipping Point: Economic Development” (with Michael O’Neil), John Lindsay’s New York, ed. Carla Bianchi (Johns Hopkins University Press), under contract.
“Paul Rudolph and the Rise and Fall of Urban Renewal” (with Priya Kapoor), edited volume on architect Paul Rudolph, ed. Birgit Rasmussen (Yale University Press), forthcoming.
“Planning’s End? Urban Renewal in New Haven, the Yale School of Art and Architecture, and the Fall of the New Deal Spatial Order,” Journal of Urban History 37, no. 3 (May 2017): 400-422.
FELLOWSHIPS AND AWARDS
Warren Center Dissertation Completion Fellowship, Harvard University, 2018-19 Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Merit/Term-Time Fellowship, Harvard University, 2017-18 Rockefeller Archive Center Grant-in-Aid, 2017-18 Taubman Center for State & Local Government Research Award, Harvard Kennedy School, 2017-18, 2016-17 Center for American Political Studies Graduate Research Seed Grant, Harvard University, 2017 Warren Center for Studies in American History Dissertation Research Grant, Harvard University, 2016-17 Real Estate Academic Initiative Research Grant, Harvard University, 2016-17 Graduate Student Council Summer Research Grant, Harvard University, 2016 Warren Center for Studies in American History Summer Research Grant, Harvard University, 2015 Harvard University Certificate of Distinction in Teaching (for “Designing the American City”), 2015
Scholars whose work relates to art, music, architecture, etc. often have experience with museum exhibitions, musical performances, etc. Benjamin, as a graduate student studying the built environment, included exhibitions that he contributed to, as well as professional architectural and curatorial experience, as they are relevant to his field. Benjamin presents his research and teaching interests in one category. He could have chosen to use two categories: RESEARCH INTERESTS, listing specific areas of his scholarly expertise, and TEACHING INTERESTS, with relevant general topics, to show the breadth of teaching areas. Benjamin landed a tenure-track position at a research university.
Jefferson Scholars Graduate Fellowship, University of Virginia (declined), 2013 Rudolf Arnheim Prize (for senior thesis), Dept of Visual and Environmental Studies, Harvard University, 2010 Creativity Foundation Legacy Prize, 2009
PRESENTATIONS
“New Pragmatism Uptown,” Urban History Association Sixth Biennial Conference, New York, New York, October 2018.
“The Urban Homestead in the Age of Fiscal Crisis: Self-Help Housing in Harlem, 1974-82,” Fourteenth National Conference on Planning History, Society for American City and Regional Planning History, Baltimore, Maryland, November 2017.
“Constructing Community Control: African American Design Activism in Harlem, c. 1968,” 2016 Buell Dissertation Colloquium, Columbia University, New York, April 2017.
“‘Building Unity to Control the Turf’: African American Design Activism, c. 1968,” Urban History Association Fifth Biennial Conference, Las Vegas, Nevada, October 2016.
“Restricting Greenwood: Urban Planning, Race, and Space in Wyoming, Ohio, 1860-1950,” The Diverse Suburb: History, Politics, and Prospects (conference), Hofstra University, Hempstead, New York, October 2015.
“Urban Planning in the Aftermath of Newark, New Jersey's ‘Long Hot Summer’ of 1967,” New England Chapter of the Society of Architectural Historians Graduate Student Symposium, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, February 2015.
“Paul Rudolph and the Rise and Fall of Urban Renewal” (with Priya Kapoor), Reassessing Rudolph: Architecture and Reputation (symposium), Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, January 2014.
EXHIBITIONS
Historical Consultant, “Foreclosed: Rehousing the American Dream,” Museum of Modern Art, New York, Assisted architectural firm MOS, one of six invited teams, February - August 2018.
Research Assistant, “Beyond the Harvard Box: The Early Works of Edward L. Barnes, Ulrich Franzen, John Johansen, Victor Lundy, I.M. Pei, and Paul Rudolph,” Harvard Graduate School of Design, Fall 2012.
Co-curator, “VAC BOS: The Carpenter Center and Le Corbusier’s Synthesis of the Arts” (Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts 40th Anniversary Exhibition), Harvard University, March and April 2010.
TEACHING AND ADVISING EXPERIENCE
Undergraduate Senior Thesis Advisor, Harvard College Committee on Degrees in Social Studies, 2018-19 Department of History, 2015-16
Head Teaching Fellow, Harvard University History and Theory of Urban Interventions (Professor Priya Kapoor), Spring 2018 Critical Memory and the Experience of History (Profs. Alexi Kovalev and LeVaughn King), Fall 2017 Conservation Canons and Institutions (Profs. Alexi Kovalev and LeVaughn King), Fall 2017
Teaching Fellow, Harvard University Ecology as Urbanism; Urbanism as Ecology (Professor Priya Kapoor), Spring 2016 Discourses and Practices of Postwar Architecture (Professor Adam Mazur), Fall 2015 Buildings, Texts, and Contexts: 1970 to the Present (Professor Hinata Sato), Fall 2015
Invited Critic, Harvard University Graduate School of Design Master of Urban Planning/Master of Architecture in Urban Design Thesis Reviews, 2018-19
Benjamin Goldfarb, pg. 2
Master of Landscape Architecture Thesis Reviews, 2017-18, 2018-19 Master of Architecture First Year Final Review, Spring 2016
RESEARCH EXPERIENCE
Professor LeVaughn King, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA Research Assistant, May 2014 to September 2017
•
Performed archival research on public official Edward J. Logue for forthcoming book.
Professor Alexi Kovalev, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA Research Assistant, September 2009 to June 2010
•
Literature review for There Goes the Neighborhood (Knopf, 2012).
ACADEMIC SERVICE
Member, Harvard Advisory Committee on Shareholder Responsibility, Spring 2016 Member, Harvard Common Spaces Steering Committee, May 2013 to February 2016 Member, Harvard Common Spaces Lead Consultant Selection Subcommittee, August to September 2014
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Office of the Chief Architect, U.S. General Services Administration, Washington, DC Coordinator, First Impressions Program, December 2011 to August 2013
•
Managed nationwide program overseeing renovations of interior and exterior public spaces in existing
federal buildings, courthouses, and border stations.
•
Arranged design reviews, managed production and editing of GSA’s Site Security Design Guide.
•
Organized agency-wide, $2.75 million project funding competition.
Office of the Chief Architect, U.S. General Services Administration, Washington, DC Analyst, Urban Development/Good Neighbor Program, November 2010 to August 2012
•
Collaborated with municipal governments to ensure that public building projects aligned with local
planning goals.
•
Managed production and editing of Achieving Great Federal Public Spaces, a guide to public space
improvement for property managers, and coordinated planning projects in Washington, DC, Chicago, and Billings, MT.
Hollin Hills National Register of Historic Places Nomination Project, Alexandria, VA Surveyor, Winter 2012
Museum of Modern Art, New York, NY Curatorial Intern, Department of Painting and Sculpture, Summer 2009
REFERENCES
Priya Kapoor LeVaughn M. King Professor of American Studies Henry J. Basha Professor of Architectural Theory Harvard University Harvard University Graduate School of Design 10 Garden Street Gund Hall, 48 Quincy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Cambridge, MA 02138 617-111-1111 617-000-0000 priya_kapoor@radcliffe.harvard.edu lmking@gsd.harvard.edu
Two additional references have been removed from this sample to conserve space. Typically, three references are provided, but you may have a fourth, especially if he or she can provide a different perspective, e.g. your teaching abilities. Be sure each of your references has agreed to write a letter of recommendation before listing him or her. Do not list additional references who are not sending a letter, as your package may be considered incomplete and not be reviewed by the search committee.
Benjamin Goldfarb, pg. 3
Vidita Chatterjee 54 Cambridge Street
Cambridge, MA 02139 (617) 000-0123
vchatterjee@fas.harvard.edu
Department of Music North Yard Harvard University Cambridge, MA 02138
CURRENT POSITION
University of Massachusetts Amherst, Amherst, MA Lecturer, Department of Music and Dance, January 2019-Present
EDUCATION
Harvard University, Cambridge, MA PhD, Musicology, expected May 2019
Dissertation: “The American Mahler: Musical Modernism and Transatlantic Networks: 1920-1960” Committee: Dieter Fischer (chair), Cecile Bernard, and Rory Garcia
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA Teaching Certificate, Graduate School of Education, 2011 BA, summa cum laude, Major: Classical Studies. Minor: Music. Phi Beta Kappa, 2009
RESEARCH AND TEACHING INTERESTS
American music Nineteenth-century music Music history pedagogy Transnational modernism Medieval music Historiography
SCHOLARLY PUBLICATIONS
“Patriotism, Art, and ‘The Star-Spangled Banner’: A New Look at the Karl Muck Episode,” (Under review)
“Beyond the Composer-Conductor Dichotomy: Bernstein’s Copland-Inspired Mahler Advocacy,” Music & Letters, (Revise and Resubmit)
“Abridging Mahler’s Symphonies: A Historical Perspective,” in Rethinking Mahler, ed. Jeremy Barham (New York: Oxford University Press), (Forthcoming)
“Lawrence Morton” in Grove Dictionary of American Music, 2nd Ed. (Forthcoming)
“Tim Page,” in Grove Dictionary of American Music, 2nd Ed. (Forthcoming)
Ambrosiana at Harvard: New Sources of Milanese Chant, ed. Francis Fitzgerald and Vidita Chatterjee (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press) 2016
“Long-lost Siblings? Houghton’s Summer Manuscript and its Possible Milan Counterpart,” in Ambrosiana at Harvard: New Sources of Milanese Chant, 23-32, 2016
Vidita held an adjunct teaching position, even as she awaited graduation and applied for faculty positions. She listed this as her current position, above the education section, to indicate her strong qualifications and experience as instructor of record. Notice also the “Research and Teaching Interests” category—she tailored this section to each position she applied to. With this CV, Vidita landed a tenure-track position at a public land-grant university.
SELECTED AWARDS AND HONORS
Whiting Dissertation Completion Fellowship, Harvard University 2018 Oscar S. Schafer Prize for excellence in teaching, Music Dept., Harvard University 2017 Warren Center for American History Term-Time Fellowship, Harvard University 2017 GSAS Term-Time Research Fellowship, Harvard University 2017 Hollace Anne Schafer Memorial Award for Outstanding Student Paper, American Musicological Society, New England Chapter
2016
Jan LaRue Fund for Research Travel to Europe, American Musicological Society 2016 Summer Research Grant, Warren Center, Harvard University (declined) 2016 Summer Research Grant, Graduate Student Council, Harvard University 2016 Richard F. French Prize Fellowship, Harvard University 2016 Nino and Lea Pirrotta Fellowship, Harvard University 2015 Ferdinand Gordon and Elizabeth Hunter Morrill Fellowship, Harvard University 2013 Gilbert E. Kaplan Fellowship in Music, Harvard University 2012 Educator 500 Award, 3E Institute, West Chester University 2012
CONFERENCE PRESENTATIONS
“Copland, Mahler, and the American Sound,” Society for American Music, Little Rock, AR, March 6-10, 2019
“Copland, Mahler, and the American Sound,” American Musicological Society, New England Chapter, Medford, MA, February 2, 2018
“Mahler’s Reception Within a Network of Modernists,” Echo Conference, University of California, Los Angeles, CA, October 19-20, 2018
“Nadia Boulanger and Gustav Mahler,” Lyrica Dialogues at Harvard: The Woman and the Pen, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, May 18, 2018
“Advising Koussevitzky: Copland, Mahler, and the BSO Canon,” Society for American Music, Charlotte, NC March 14-18, 2018
“Annotating Mahler: Boulanger’s Take on the Fourth Symphony,” American Musicological Society, San Francisco, CA, November 10-13, 2017
“Advising Koussevitzky: Copland, Mahler, and the BSO Canon,” Gustav Mahler Centenary Conference, University of Surrey, Guildford, U.K., July 7-9, 2017
“Mahler’s Modernist Champions: Boulanger and Copland in France and the United States,” After Mahler’s Death: International Gustav Mahler Symposium, Vienna, Austria, May 24-28, 2017
“Making Mahler French: Bernstein’s Case for the Composer in 1960,” The Symphony Orchestra as Cultural Phenomenon, London, July 1-3, 2015; American Musicological Society, New England Chapter, Waltham, MA, February 6, 2016
“Houghton MS Lat 389 and a Possible Counterpart,” Ambrosiana at Harvard: New Sources of Milanese Chant, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, October 18-19, 2014
Vidita Chatterjee, pg. 2
INVITED TALKS
Panelist, “On the Road and Online with the New York Philharmonic, 1943-1970,” New York Philharmonic Archives, March 22, 2019 (http://archives.nyphil.org/hangout)
ADDITIONAL PUBLICATIONS
“Keeping it Real: The Limits of Virtual Learning,” The Bok Blog of the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning, Harvard University, January 25, 2018 (http://blog.bokcenter.harvard.edu/)
Unsung Symphonies, collaborative venture with Frank Lehman, co-founder and coeditor (http://unsungsymphonies.blogspot.com/). Posts include “In Memory of James Yannatos: Symphony No. 5, ‘Son et Lumière’” (October 28, 2017) and “Pushing the Envelope: Blitzstein’s ‘Airborne’” (January 10, 2017)
“From TFA to TF: Different School, Same Lessons,” The Bok Blog, August 22, 2017
“Cheers, Boston, and Gustav Mahler,” op-ed, Boston Globe, July 30, 2017
“Learning to Decipher Archival Documents, One Letter (or Number) at a Time,” Amusicology, August 7, 2016 (http://amusicology.wordpress.com/)
“Getting to Home Plate with Sheet Music and Tobacco Cards,” The Lazy Scholar, April 7, 2016 (http://thelazyscholar.com/). Piece highlighted in AHA Today, “What We’re Reading: April 8, 2016 Edition” (http://blog.historians.org/)
“The Canadian Bess, or Porgy and Brass,” Amusicology, April 3, 2016
TEACHING EXPERIENCE
University of Massachusetts Amherst, Amherst MA Lecturer, Styles: Graduate Survey in Music History, Spring 2019
Designed and taught course
Harvard University, Cambridge, MA Head Teaching Fellow, First Nights: Five Musical Premiers, Fall 2016 Curriculum Designer, Pedagogy Practicum for New Teachers, 2015-2016 Teaching Fellow, First Nights: Five Musical Premiers, Fall 2015 Teaching Fellow, Music History and Repertory, 1750 to Present, Spring 2015 Teaching Fellow, Music History and Repertory, Medieval to 1750, Fall 2015
Anna Howard Shaw Middle School, Philadelphia, PA Mathematics Teacher, 2009-11
Teach for America, Philadelphia, PA Corps Member, 2009-11
LANGUAGES French (Proficient); German, Italian, Latin (Reading Knowledge)
PLEASE NOTE: The REFERENCES category should always be included in an academic CV, but page 4 has been removed here to save space. Be sure to request letters of reference well in advance of application deadlines, and include full contact information for each letter writer, including a professor’s full academic title.
Vidita Chatterjee, pg. 3
Magda V. Yulanovski (650) 999-9999, magda_yulanovski@fas.harvard.edu
http://www.gov.harvard.edu/people/magda_yulanovski Dept. of Government, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02139
EDUCATION
Harvard University Ph.D., Government
Cambridge, MA Expected May 2019
 Research Interests: Civil Conflict, Political Economy of Development, Ethnic Politics, African Politics, Security Studies, Research Design
 Dissertation: “Initiating Insurgency: Rebel Group Formation and Viability in Uganda”
University of Michigan M.A., International Policy Studies B.A. with Honors, Political Science, concentration in International Relations
Ann Arbor, MI June 2008
June 2008
SELECTED GRANTS AND HONORS Dissertation Fellowship, Harry Frank Guggenheim (HFG) foundation 2018-19 Hartley R. Rodgers Dissertation Fellowship, Weatherhead Center for International Affairs, Harvard University 2017-18
Bok Center Certificate for Distinction in Teaching, Harvard University 2015, 2017 U.S. Institute of Peace (USIP) Randolph Jennings Dissertation Fellowship 2016-17 National Science Foundation (NSF) Doctoral Dissertation Improvement Grant 2016 Smith Richardson World Politics and Statecraft Fellowship 2016 Arthur Lehman Merit Fellowship, Harvard University 2015-16 Graduate Fellow, Center on Conflict and Negotiation (SCCN), University of Michigan 2011-12 National Security Education Program (NSEP) undergraduate grant for study in South Africa 2010
Dorot Foundation research grant for fieldwork in Israel, Gaza, and the West Bank 2010
WORKS IN PROGRESS  “Selection Problems in Scholarship on Ethnicity and Conflict Onset: Evidence from Uganda.”
Article manuscript in progress, to be submitted for publication in spring 2018.
 “Information, Civil Intelligence and Statebuilding: Evidence from Uganda.” Article manuscript in progress, to be submitted for publication in fall/winter 2018.
 “Intergovernmental Balance of Power and District Proliferation in Sub-Saharan Africa,” with Amy Angeles. Data collection and analysis in progress.
PRESENTATIONS  “Attempting Rebellion: Dynamics of Rebel Group Launch and Viability.” African Studies
Association (ASA), November 2018; American Political Science Association (APSA), September 2018; International Studies Association (ISA), March 2019.
 “Designing Interviews to Get the Information You Seek.” APSA, September 2017, short course on the methods, practices, strategies, and technologies of fieldwork.
Magda’s CV is representative of those social science fields in which the PhD dissertation is composed of several papers. She lists these as “Works in Progress” and briefly describes their publication status. She also had considerable policy experience, both prior to and during her graduate studies, and these, while non-academic, are certainly relevant to her candidacy for a tenure-track faculty position in political science at a military academy.
 “The Initial Stages of Insurgency and Counterinsurgency.” APSA, September 2016.
 “The Unremarkable Start of an Infamous Rebellion: The LRA in Comparative Perspective.” New England Political Science Association (NEPSA), April 2016.
 “Humanitarian Intervention, Sovereignty, and ‘Weak’ States: the Case of Darfur.” Invited talk at Makerere University graduate class on Human Rights and International Relations, Uganda, April 2015.
 “Building Partner Capacity: Assessing U.S. Training of African Peacekeepers.” RAND Corporation., August 2013.
POLICY PUBLICATIONS
 “Developing an Army Strategy for Building Partner Capacity for Stability Operations” with Andreas Rizzi et al. Monograph. Santa Monica: The RAND Corporation, June 2017.
 “Poverty and Conflict: What Policymakers Need to Know” with Johannes Klein and Marilyn Maloney. Working Paper Series on Global Economy and Development, Washington, D.C.: The Brookings Institution, December 2013.
 “Terrorist Financing: Better Strategic Planning Needed to Coordinate U.S. Efforts to Deliver Counter-Terrorism Financing Training Abroad.” (contributing author) Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Accountability Office, October 2012.
 “Terrorist Financing: U.S. Agencies Should Systematically Assess Terrorists’ Use of Alternative Financing Mechanisms.” (contributing author) Washington, D.C.: U.S. General Accounting Office, November 2012.
TEACHING AND MENTORING  Instructor, Ethnic Politics and Conflict (self-designed seminar), Harvard College (Spring 2017) Received
4.8/5.0 average rating for teaching effectiveness from student evaluations  Teaching Fellow, Introduction to Comparative Government, Harvard College (Fall 2014 and 2015)
Received 4.7/5.0 average rating for teaching effectiveness from student evaluations  Thesis Advisor for three Harvard undergraduates (2014-15 and 2016-17)  Invited lecturer for Yale undergraduate Civil Wars course, Yale University (Oct. 2017)  Invited speaker on undergraduate research abroad, Harvard University (May 2017)  Managed and mentored one Harvard undergraduate and one Makerere University undergraduate
who served as research assistants in Uganda (July 2016)
INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH AND STUDY
 Ph.D. fieldwork in Uganda (14 months; August 2014 through February 2018)  Fieldwork for the U.S. GAO in Brussels and Jakarta (April 2010 and October 2011)  Undergraduate thesis fieldwork in Israel, Gaza City, and the West Bank (June 2006)  Undergraduate fieldwork and study in the Cape Flats, South Africa (January to May 2006)  Study at Cambridge University, England (Sept. to Dec. 2005)
SKILLS  Proficient in statistical analysis and software (R and Stata)  Basic use of Geographic Information Systems and related software (ArcGIS and Geoda)  Advanced French (conversation and reading), intermediate Spanish (reading), and Swahili (basic)
Magda Yulanovski, pg. 2
SERVICE AND AFFILIATIONS
 Pre-doctoral Fellow, MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies, Program on Order, Conflict, and Violence (OCV), Yale University (2018-Present)
 Reviewer, International Security  Executive Committee Member (2017-18) and Graduate Student Associate (2012-16), Weatherhead
Center for International Affairs, Harvard University  Co-Coordinator, Harvard Workshop on Civil Conflict and Political Violence (2011-13)  Affiliate, Makerere University Institute for Social Research and the Center for Basic Research,
Kampala, Uganda  Affiliate, Harvard Institute for Quantitative Social Science  Member, American Political Science Association (APSA), International Studies Association (ISA),
and African Studies Association (ASA)
RELATED PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
The RAND Corporation Summer Associate
Arlington, VA Summer 2013
 Conducted research for RAND study on effectiveness of U.S. Army and Department of State’s Building Partner Capacity programs, which train African militaries in peacekeeping skills.
The Brookings Institution Consultant
Washington, DC Summer 2011; Spring 2013
 Conducted research for Brookings’ Foreign Policy Studies program on transnational security implications of global poverty. Consulted on U.S. foreign policy challenges in Latin America.
Harvard University Research Assistant
Cambridge, MA 2012
 Conducted coding of historical data for Professor Melissa Munoz.  Conducted statistical and case study research for Associate Professor Maxwell Angeles.
U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) International Affairs Analyst
San Francisco, CA and Washington, DC 2006-2010
 Conducted research on effectiveness of U.S. government’s foreign programs and policies.  Drafted public reports and congressional testimony.  Conducted interviews with senior officials from Departments of State, Defense, Homeland Security,
Justice, Treasury, intelligence agencies, the E.U., and Governments of Belgium and Indonesia. Held Top Secret clearance.
Seeds of Peace Instructor and Counselor
Maine, Greece, and Croatia Summers 2003-2007
 Facilitated discussion groups and designed and implemented team-building curricula for youth leaders from opposing sides of conflicts in the Middle East, former Yugoslavia, and Cyprus.
REFERENCES
Full contact information for at least three references should be included, but have been removed from this sample to conserve space.
Magda Yulanovski, pg. 3
ELLEN R. JOSEPH josepher@xxx.harvard.edu
3400 West Chester Blvd. Apartment 109
Los Angeles, CA 90620 (813) 321-1234
Los Angeles, CA 2017-Present
Cambridge, MA 2017
Hanover, NH 2009
Department of Neuroscience Science Center, Room 5480 18000 San Bernardino Blvd. Los Angeles, CA 90669 (813) 566-4321
CURRENT POSITION University of California, Los Angeles Postdoctoral Fellow
EDUCATION Harvard University PhD, Neurobiology Dissertation: Development of synaptic plasticity in Aplysia californica Dartmouth College BS, magna cum laude, Biology. Phi Beta Kappa
GRANTS AND AWARDS 2018-2019
2017
2014-2016
2014, 2016
Los Angeles, CA 2017-Present
Ruth L. Kirschstein Post-Doctoral National Research Service Award National Institute of Deafness and Other Communication Disorders, National Institutes of Health Department of Neuroscience, Emerging Faculty Award University of California, Los Angeles Ruth L. Kirschstein Pre-Doctoral National Research Service Award National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of Health Bok Center Certificate of Distinction in Teaching Award Harvard University
RESEARCH EXPERIENCE University of California, Los Angeles Postdoctoral Fellow; Advisor: Young X. Shen Developmental regulation of NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission in zebra finch brain
•
Developed single cell PCR method to study developmental changes in NMDA receptors, correlated with developmental stages of song learning
•
Analyzed developmental changes in juvenile song using customized LabView software.
•
Altered development of song with behavioral and circadian manipulations
Cambridge, MA 2010-2017
Harvard University Graduate Researcher; Advisor: Thomas J. Schmidt Serotonergic modulation of synaptic transmission in developing and adult Aplysia
•
Used in vitro single cell neurophysiological recording and stimulation to study developmental emergence of two serotonin-mediated forms of synaptic plasticity
Ellen applied for a tenure-track faculty position as a post-doc. At that point, she emphasized her two NRSA fellowships, and she placed her publications at the end of the CV, just prior to her references, as is expected in the life sciences.
It is rare for a PhD in the experimental sciences to successfully land a tenure-track faculty position immediately out of graduate school. A postdoc is almost always necessary. When Ellen had applied for her postdoctoral position, she included more detail about her graduate research.
Woods Hole, MA Summer 2012
Cambridge, MA 2009-2010
Marine Biological Laboratory Participant, Neural Systems and Behavior course
Harvard University Graduate Research Assistant; Advisor: Emily Chester Expression of Lupus antigens in fetal rat brain
•
Characterized developmental changes in expression of numerous lupus antigens using immunocytochemistry and flourescence microscopy
Los Angeles, CA Sping 2018-Present
Spring 2018
New York, NY Summer 2015, 2016
Spring 2016 Spring 2014
Fall 2014
Hanover, NH Spring 2008
Fall 2007, Fall 2008
TEACHING EXPERIENCE
University of California, Los Angeles Written and Oral Communication Advisor Guest Lecturer and Consultant, Seminar in Animal Communication
Harvard University Guest Lecturer, Introductory Psychology Head Teaching Fellow, Cellular Basis of Behavior Teaching Fellow, Cellular Basis of Behavior Teaching Fellow, Neurobiology
Dartmouth College Teaching Fellow, Special Topics in Psychology Teaching Fellow, Introductory Biology
RELATED PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Harvard Graduate Women in Science and Engineering (HGWISE), Harvard University President
Cambridge, MA 2015-2017
•
Organized and led student representatives from 25 natural science departments to promote issues of concern to women scientists and engineers at Harvard
•
Co-chaired Invited Speakers committee. Managed 3 public symposia featuring nationally-renowned women scientists
PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS
Society for Neuroscience International Association of Electrophysiologists New York Academy of Sciences
CONFERENCE PRESENTATIONS
Joseph, E.R. and Shen, Y.X. Synaptic maturation is input-specific and occurs in two phases in nucleus RA of the zebra finch. Society for Neuroscience Abstracts. Poster presentation to be delivered at the Society for Neuroscience meeting, San Diego, CA, November, 2019.
Joseph, E.R. and Shen, Y.X. Developmental regulation of NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic currents in nucleus RA of the zebra finch. Society for Neuroscience Abstracts. 25:191. Poster presentation delivered at the Society for Neuroscience meeting, Atlanta, GA, November, 2018.
Joseph, E.R. and Schmidt, T.J. Synaptic facilitation is independent of spike duration in sensory neurons of juvenile Aplysia. Society for Neuroscience Abstracts. 25:695. Poster presentation delivered at the Society for Neuroscience meeting, Washington, D.C., November, 2016.
Ellen R. Joseph, pg. 2
Joseph, E.R. and Schmidt, T.J. Serotonergic facilitation of synaptic transmission in juvenile Aplysia. Society for Neuroscience Abstracts. 23:814. Oral presentation delivered at the Society for Neuroscience meeting, New Orleans, LA, November, 2015.
Joseph, E.R., Kline, N.J., and Schmidt, T.J. Temporal dissociation of 5HT-induced spike broadening and excitability in Aplysia sensory neurons. Society for Neuroscience Abstracts. 21:941. Oral presentation delivered at the Society for Neuroscience meeting, St. Louis, MO, November, 2013.
Joseph, E.R. and Schmidt, T.J. Teaching neuroscience through a laboratory experience: you can't start too young. Society for Neuroscience Abstracts. 20:518. Poster presentation delivered at the Society for Neuroscience meeting, Orlando, FL, November 2012.
REVIEW ARTICLES
Joseph, E.R., LeBlanc, R., Kline, N.J., Bliss, E.A., and Schmidt, T.J. (2015). Central actions of serotonin across the life span of Aplysia: Implications for development and learning. In H. Koike, Y. Kidokoro, K. Takahashi, and T. Kanaseki (Eds.), Basic Neuroscience in Invertebrates (pp. 249-265). Tokyo: Japan Scientific Societies Press.
Kline, N.J., Bliss, E.A., Joseph, E.R., and Schmidt, T.J. (2015). Differential modulatory actions of serotonin in Aplysia sensory neurons: Implications for development and learning. Seminars in Neuroscience. 9:21-33.
PEER-REVIEWED PUBLICATIONS
Joseph, E.R. and Shen, Y.X. (2019). Two-stage, input-specific synaptic maturation in a nucleus essential for vocal production in the zebra finch. Journal of Neuroscience. 22:9107-9116.
Joseph, E.R. and Schmidt, T.J. (2018). Developmental dissociation of serotonin-induced spike broadening and synaptic facilitation in Aplysia sensory neurons. Journal of Neuroscience. 21:334-346.
Joseph, E.R., Chang, A.R., Kline, N.J., and Schmidt, T.J. (2016). Pharmacological and kinetic characterization of two functional classes of serotonergic modulation in Aplysia sensory neurons. Journal of Neurophysiology. 78:855-866.
Smythe, M.I., Vaidya, A.F., Joseph, E.R., Belema, J.F., and Denny, K.M. (2009). Fetal expression of renin, angiotensinogen, and atriopeptin genes in chick heart. Journal of Clinical and Experimental Hypertension. A15: 617-629.
REFERENCES
Young X. Shen, Ph.D. Akaysha M. Lin, Ph.D. Kim Professor of Neuroethology
Thomas J. Schmidt, Ph.D. Professor Associate Professor
Department of Neuroscience Division of Med. Sci. Department of Psychology University of California, Los Angeles Harvard University
(617) 999-9999 tjschmidt@xxx.harvard.edu
University of California, Los Angeles (813) 123-4567 linam@xxx.ucla.edu
(813) 555-5555 shenyx@xxx.ucla.edu
TE NING CHANG 24 Dogwood Terrace #3 • Cambridge, MA 02138 • tnchang@fas.harvard.edu • (617) 123-4567
EDUCATION
Harvard University, Cambridge, MA PhD East Asian Languages and Civilizations (Chinese Literature of the later dynasties), expected May 2019. - General Examination Fields: Chinese Poetry (from beginning to Tang), Chinese Literature (from Song
to late Qing), English Renaissance Drama
National University of Singapore, Singapore AM Chinese Literature, 2012 AB with Honors, Chinese, 2010
DISSERTATION
“Qu Writing in Literati Communities: Rediscovering Sanqu Songs and Drama in Sixteenth-Century China” Advisors: Professors Dorothy A. Denny, Sing Wei Lung, and Robert S. Belwether
FELLOWSHIPS AND AWARDS Graduate Society Dissertation Completion Fellowship 2018-2019 Harvard Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Merit Fellowship 2017-2018
Asia Center Fellowship for Summer Research in Shaanxi and Shanghai, China 2016 Academia Sinica Fellowship for Dissertation Research in Taiwan 2015-2016
Asia Center Fellowship for Summer Research in Beijing and Shandong, China Asia Center 2016 Fellowship for Summer Research in Kyoto, Japan 2015
Yun-cheng Sa Memorial Fellowship 2012-2013 NUS Research Scholarship 2009-2011 Hokkien Foundation Scholarship 2008 Special Book Prize (awarded to top student in Chinese Language), National Univ. of Singapore 2006-2007 PUBLICATIONS
“The New Discovery of Kang Hai’s (1475-1541) Sanqu Collection and Its Significances,” (in Chinese) accepted for publication by Zhongguo wenzhe yanjiu tongxun, (forthcoming).
“Prohibition of Jiatou Zaju in the Ming Dynasty and the Portrayal of the Emperor on Stage,” in Ming Studies, Number 49 (Spring 2017), pp.82-111.
“A Study of a ‘New’ Huaben Story in Jingshi tongyan: ‘Ye Fashi Fushi Zhenyao’ (Exorcist Ye Subdues the Demon with a Charmed Rock),” (in Chinese) in Mingdai xiaoshuo mianmianguan: Mingdai xiaoshuo guoji xueshu yantaohui lunwenji (Aspects of Ming Dynasty Fiction: Proceedings of the International Conference on Ming Fiction). Edited by Kow Mei Kao and Huang Lin, pp.354-371. Shanghai: Xuelin Chubanshe, 2015.
With this CV, typical of those in the humanities, Te Ning applied to a lectureship at Oxford University in the U.K. As such, she was sure to emphasize her considerable international experience: studying, conducting research, presenting and teaching throughout East Asia, as well as in the U.S. Te Ning chose a more traditional format for her education section, including h er general exam fields and a separate dissertation section. This choice is, perhaps, more appropriate for graduate students in earlier stages of their programs. She could have, instead, put the dissertation under he r PhD and replaced the exam fields with a separate “Research & Teaching Fields” category. As she was applying for a position that emphasizes teaching, she gave more detail in her teaching experience section th an is seen in some other samples in this booklet.
CONFERENCE PAPERS
“The Making of a Master in Drama and Sanqu in the Mid Ming: Li Kaixian’s Role, Influence, and Self-fashioning,” presented at the Annual Meeting of the Association for Asian Studies, April 6-9, 2019 San Francisco, CA.
“The New Discovery of Materials Related to the Mid Ming Qu Writer Kang Hai and Its Significances,” (in Chinese) presented at The International Conference on Chinese Drama: From Traditions to Modernity, jointly organized by the Nanjing University and the Shanghai Academy of Dramatic Arts, July 16-19, 2018, Nanjing and Shanghai.
“Defining a ‘Qu Community’ - An Approach to the Transmission and Production of Sanqu and Drama in Sixteenth-Century North China,” presented at the Workshop on Literary Communities: The Social Context and Literary Production & Consumption, organized by the Centre for Asian and African Literatures, May 27-28, 2017, London.
“The Transmission and Social Production of Sanqu in Literary Circles in Sixteenth-Century North China,” presented at the Annual Meeting of the Association for Asian Studies, March 4-7, 2017, San Diego, CA.
“Self, Sword and Action: Lin Chong and His Precious Sword in Baojianji,” presented at the Third International Convention of Asia Scholars (ICAS3), August 19-22, 2016, Singapore.
“From ‘Tragedy’ to ‘Beiju’ : The Introduction and Reinterpretation of a Western Concept in the Study of Classical Chinese Drama,” (in Chinese) presented at The International Conference on East-West Studies: Tradition, Transformation and Innovation, jointly organized by National University of Singapore and the University of Hong Kong, December 2011, Singapore.
INVITED TALKS AND PRESENTATIONS
“The Commemoration of a Singing Girl in Songs and Drama in a Qu Community: The Case Study of Wang Lanqing,” (in Chinese) presented at the Institute of Chinese Literature and Philosophy, Academia Sinica on June 13, 2018, Taipei.
“Qu Community: A New Approach to the Study of Sanqu and Drama by Mid Ming Literati,” (in Chinese) presented at the Chinese Department, National Tsing Hua University on June 8, 2018, Hsinchu, Taiwan.
TEACHING AND ADVISING EXPERIENCE
Harvard University, East Asian Studies Program, Cambridge, MA Assistant Head Tutor, Fall and Spring: 2016-2017 and 2018-2019. - Academic advisor and administrative director for senior tutorials in East Asian Studies Program. - Oversaw ~12 graduate student thesis tutors and 20 undergraduate thesis writers each year.
Harvard University, East Asian Languages and Civilizations, Cambridge, MA Teaching Fellow, Chinese Literature course “Screening Modern China: Chinese Film and Culture” (Professor Dorothy Denny), Fall 2016. - Taught two sections (18 and 17 students respectively) on Chinese film, literature and culture.
Harvard University, Core Program and East Asian Languages and Civilizations, Cambridge, MA Teaching Fellow, Historical Study course “China: Traditions and Transformations” (Professor Robert Belwether and Professor Sing Wei Lung), Spring 2016. - Taught one section (7 students) on Chinese history and civilization.
Harvard University, East Asian Studies Program, Cambridge, MA Senior Thesis Advisor, Senior Tutorial, Fall and Spring 2014-2016. - Advised two undergraduates on senior theses on Chinese Buddhist literature and contemporary Chinese
poetry, respectively. - Both theses awarded Thomas T. Hoopes prize for outstanding undergraduate scholarly work.
RESEARCH EXPERIENCE
Harvard University, Department of East Asian Languages and Civilizations, Cambridge, MA Research Assistant to Professor Dorothy A. Denny in preparation of revised edition of A Guide to Chinese Literature, 2016-2017 Research Assistant to Professor Stephen Conlan in a project on Chinese emigration, 2014-2015 Research Assistant to Professor Dorothy A. Denny in the preparation of the undergraduate Chinese Literature course “Filial Piety in Chinese Literature,” 2013-2014
National University of Singapore, Singapore Research Assistant to Professor Mei Liu in a research project on the collection of Chinese fiction in the Chinese Library, 2012-2013.
RESEARCH AFFILIATIONS
Visiting Scholar, Institute of Chinese Literature & Philosophy, Academia Sinica, Taipei. 2017-2018 East Asian Research Fellow, Fairbank Center, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA. Summer 2018 Visiting Scholar, China National Academy of the Arts, Beijing, China, Summer 2017 Visiting Scholar, Institute for Research in Humanities, Kyoto, Japan, Summer 2016
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Panel Organizer. Organized a panel entitled “Shaping the Literary World: Li Kaixian's (1502-1568) Songs, Plays, and Biographies,” consisting of four panelists and a discussant from various institutions. Proposal accepted for the 2019 Annual Meeting of the Association for Asian Studies.
Assistant Editor. Compiled and edited An Annotated Bibliography of Chinese Popular Fiction of the Ming-Qing Period in the Collection of the Chinese Library, National University of Singapore (in Chinese). Singapore: Center for Research in Chinese Studies, Monograph Series No.2, 2011. 312 pp.
LANGUAGES
Chinese: Native. Japanese: 3 years of Modern Japanese. French: reading knowledge. Familiarity with other Chinese dialects: Henghua, Southern Min (Hokkien) dialect, Cantonese.
REFERENCES
Professor Robert S. Belwether Department of East Asian Civilizations Columbia University 000 North St. New York, NY 10000 212-123-0000 belwether@xxx.columbia.edu
Professor Dorothy A. Denny Department of East Asian Languages and Civilizations Harvard University 000 Kirkland Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-0000 denny@xxx.harvard.edu
Professor Sing Wei Lung Department of East Asian Languages and Civilizations Harvard University 000 Kirkland Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-0000 swlung@xxx.harvard.edu
Keisha V. Thomas keisha.thomas@email.com
29B Russell Avenue, Apt. 19 • Brighton, MA 02121 • (617) 123-4567 ________________________________________________________________________________________________
EDUCATION
Harvard University, Division of Medical Sciences Boston, MA Expected March 2019 • Ph.D., Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology
•
National Science Foundation Honorable Mention 2013
Swarthmore College
•
B.A., Biology
Swarthmore, PA May 2010
Boston, MA 2014-present
RESEARCH EXPERIENCE
Harvard University Medical School Graduate Researcher with Dr. Elias T. Johannson Genetic and genomic studies of ubiquitin-proteasome system activities in S. cerevisiae
•
Examined potential transcriptional effects of the proteasome using microarray analysis to provide a genome-wide
picture of chromatin binding and gene regulation.
•
Executed genetic screen for suppressor of a mutant in the proteasome adaptor complex Cdc48Npl4Ufd1.
•
Characterized one of the isolated suppressors to reveal a function in sporulation, using biochemistry, cell biology and
transcriptional profiling.
Yale University Medical School Research Assistant with Dr. Bing Wong
New Haven, CT 2011-2013
•
Examined transcriptional regulation of the bile acid transporter Ntcp using reporter assays in cultured hepatocytes.
•
Managed laboratory functions including organization, ordering and scheduling equipment use.
•
Trained new students and employees.
University of California San Francisco Research Assistant with Dr. Shona V. Ramapura
San Francisco, CA Summer 2010
•
Analyzed encapsidation of HIV RNA using cell-free extract.
Université de Paris, Station Zoologique Intern with Dr. Magali Canivet
Villefranche sur mer, France Summer 2009
•
Used micromanipulation and microscopy to investigate early developmental stages of tunicate embryos.
Yale University Medical School Howard Hughes Intern with Dr. Jane P. Angelique
New Haven, CT Summer 2006
•
Established method of PCR screening for NOD mice used in diabetes research.
SKILLS and TECHNIQUES
•
Isolation of RNA and analysis by transcriptional profiling and Northern blot
•
Chromatin immunoprecipitation and analysis on microarrays and by quantitative PCR
•
Fluorescence microscopy
•
Statistical analysis of microarray data
•
Immunoprecipitation of complexes for identification by Mass Spectrometry
•
Genetic screening and manipulations in budding yeast
•
Mammalian cell culture
Keisha used this CV to help her successfully land a staff scientist position at a biotech company. There are not many differences from her academic CV, except that she includes a list of skills and techniques (which is also appropriate for an academic postdoctoral application). While her thesis work was basic science, she includes references to clinically relevant work in her earlier research experiences. References are not included when applying to industry.
LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE
Harvard University Medical School Boston, MA Editor, Biological and Biomedical Sciences Program Bulletin 2016-Present
•
Participated in planning content; solicited, wrote and edited articles relevant to student life.
Mentor, Mentoring for Science program 2014, 2017
•
Guided eighth-grade students in understanding of scientific method through molecular biology experiments and
case-based learning.
Swarthmore College Teaching Assistant, Embryology
Swarthmore, PA 2010
•
Assisted in preparation and execution of weekly laboratory section.
•
Prepared and presented 2 class lectures.
ABSTRACTS
K.V. Thomas, J.M. O’Reilly, S. Kopp, and E.T. Johannson. The Proteasome and its Transcription Factor Substrate Have Overlapping Specificity in Gene Regulation. Abstracts of the Gordon Symposium on Ubiquitin and Signaling, 2018. Abstract 106.
K.V. Thomas, S. Gerling, and E.T. Johannson. The Npl4/Ufd1/Cdc48 Complex and Regulation of Membrane Composition. Abstracts of the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 2017. Abstract and Presentation 1615.
PUBLICATIONS
K.V. Thomas, A.L. Marcus, S. Gerling, L. Sing, and E.T. Johannson. The Yeast Arr4 Forms a Complex with Functions in Sporulation. In preparation.
K.V. Thomas, C.R. White, J.M. O’Reilly, S. Kopp, and E.T. Johannson. Genomic Localization of the Proteasome Demonstrates Multiple Levels of Gene Regulation. Under review.
A.L. Marcus, K.V. Thomas, S.P. Georgios, and E.T. Johannson. A subset of membrane-associated proteins is ubiquitinated in response to mutations in the endoplasmic reticulum degradation machinery. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA 2016; 98(16):12861-66.
L.A. Pittson, K.V. Thomas, D.S. Kerry, M.H. Slater, D.J. Elliot, and B. Wong. Interleukin-1ß Suppresses Retinoid Transactivation of Two Hepatic Transporter Genes Involved in Bile Formation. Journal of Chemical Biology 2015; 275(12): 8835-8843.
Your Name Street Address City, State Zip Code
Month Day, Year
Contact Name Title (if known) Organization Name Street Address City, State Zip Code
Dear Professor/Dr. Last Name: (or if not known: “Dear Members of the Search Committee:”)
Opening paragraph: Clearly state why you are writing. If applying for a specific job, indicate the position title and where you saw it advertised. If you were referred to the position from someone within the institution, or by someone the addressee knows, mention that as well. Give a brief introduction of yourself and your status, e.g. “I am completing my PhD in [department or field] and I expect to finish [or defend, or graduate] in [Month, Year]. You could add to this sentence, the name of your dissertation or the topic of your research, as well as the name of your advisor.
Middle paragraphs: You should have several paragraphs that elaborate on how your research and other experiences in graduate school have prepared you for the job as it is described. Typically, these include a paragraph about your dissertation/current research, one about your future research plans, and one or two about your teaching experience/interests/approach/courses you could offer.
Disciplines differ on the length and level of detail required for cover letters, so be sure to get feedback from others in your department. Junior faculty members who have recently been on the market themselves are often the best people to ask. For example, the amount of detail you provide about your teaching depends on the position, the type of institution, and the norms in your field.
Think about how your interest in both the job and the institution developed—in order to stand out from the potentially long list of applicants, you will need to make a coherent argument for why it was a logical decision on your part to apply for the position, and why it would be a logical decision on their part to hire you. What kind of contribution will you make to their existing department? How will you fit in? Make sure you are writing for your target audience. For instance, for a liberal arts college you may use more space addressing your teaching experience than you would for a large research university. For a school outside a major metropolitan area, you may also want to indicate why you are interested in living in that area.
Closing paragraph: Indicate that your CV and other supporting documentation are enclosed. Express interest in speaking with the addressee further in a personal interview, especially if you plan to attend a conference where first-round interviews typically occur. Thank them for their time and consideration.
Sincerely,
(signature)
Name (typed)
Note that in an e-mail message, you would omit both your and the addressee’s contact information, as well as the date. Simply start with the salutation.
If you include the cover letter as an attachment, use proper letter format, as shown here.
Cover Letter Guidelines
HARVARD UNIVERSITY • DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC
MUSIC BUILDING CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS 02138, USA
617-495-2791
January 14, 2018
Professor Rosalie Cork Search Committee Chair - 51674 School of Music 1017 N. Pemagasset Road Seattle, WA 98195-1234
Dear Professor Cork and Members of the Search Committee:
I write to apply for the position of Assistant Professor of Musicology in the University of Washington School of Music. Under the direction of Dieter Fischer, I am completing my Ph.D. in historical musicology at Harvard University with an expected degree date of May 2019.
My interdisciplinary research unites two strands of recent, significant musicological inquiry: the development of American musical modernism as a transatlantic phenomenon, and the transmission, reception, and circulation of music in interpersonal networks. In my dissertation, “The American Mahler: Musical Modernism and Transatlantic Networks, 1920–1960,” I argue that the growth of Mahler’s reputation shaped musical modernism in the United States. I draw from historical musicology, oral history, sociology, American studies, and Jewish studies to examine the relationship between Mahler’s music and an intimate network of four influential figures in American modernism: Nadia Boulanger, Aaron Copland, Serge Koussevitzky, and Leonard Bernstein. Boulanger’s score collection shows that she encountered Mahler’s music in Amsterdam in 1920 and taught his music to her American students, including Copland. On his return to the United States, Copland drew on his engagement with Mahler’s music to construct his own identity as an American modernist. Copland also encouraged Koussevitzky and Bernstein to promote Mahler; Koussevitzky enlisted Mahler’s music to reinforce his own advocacy of modernism in the concert hall, while Bernstein did so to bolster the stature of modern tonal composition. The discovery of these figures’ shared relationships with Mahler’s music reveals that their articulations of Mahler’s significance were deeply bound to their priorities as members of a transatlantic modernist community.
My next major research project will make use of the University of Washington’s archival holdings to interrogate long-held assumptions about art music as a written tradition by examining a practice that most onlookers today reject as sacrilegious but that was once quite common: the abridgment of orchestral works
Vidita’s letter exemplifies the traditional structure of an academic cover letter: Introduction, current research, future research, teaching, conclusion. Following the formulaic structure allows the reader to focus on Vidita’s engaging writing and key points without having to hunt for each critical component.
Remember that each document in your package should stand alone, telling the same story in a different way. For example, the CV lists all of your academic accomplishments, while the cover letter will emphasize the most important and relevant parts of your background. The letter should not read as a CV in prose, and should summarize and encapsulate the points you expand upon in your research statement and teaching statement. Allow your professional voice to shine through in your writing to express your sincere enthusiasm for your work and the confidence that you are the best candidate for the particular position, department, or institution.
in performance, by conductors, in the United States in the first half of the 20th century. In the course of my dissertation research, I discovered performing scores, as well as marked orchestral part books and concert reviews, that document this practice. A comparison of these sources illuminates a written record of the transmission of such changes among performers and across generations. Scholars usually approach symphonic works as permanently fixed entities, but my own published research on Chant transmission has prompted me to treat abridgment as evidence that performers and audiences have negotiated symphonic music through complex patterns and channels of oral and aural transmission. I look forward to enriching my perspective on American musical culture during this period by exploring the papers of Helen Hopekirk and of the Club Filarmónico Tucsonense.
My teaching, like my research, reflects a passionate interest in the specific circumstances in which musicians and audiences interact with music. My primary goal as a music educator—fueled by several years of experience teaching at the secondary level and in higher education—is to harness the powerful relationships that students already have with music in general, bridging the gap between those relationships and the music they encounter in academic settings. In exploring the melodic aesthetics of mass songs in the 20th century for a course on American musical theatre, I had students compare the experience of attempting to sing Marc Blitzstein’s song “The Cradle Will Rock” with “7 1/2 Cents” from the Richard Adler and Jerry Ross musical The Pajama Game. To approach a rhythmically complex passage from the scherzo of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony in a general education course on music appreciation, I led the class in conducting it from a recording; I also had students collaborate to create play-by-play podcasts of portions of the work in the style of sports commentary. Through such activities, I transform music history from an abstract phenomenon into a tangible part of students’ lives, generating entry points for discussions of how musicians and audiences in the past grappled with music.
My research and my recent teaching experience—which has included designing and executing a yearlong course for other graduate students on teaching methods, conducting video-based consultations on their classrooms, and advising faculty members on their syllabi—have primed me to create and teach inspiring music courses. I was selected to lead an intensive survey of Western music history for graduate students at the University of Massachusetts Amherst this spring. I am also prepared to lead classes on a wide array of subjects in art and vernacular musics, from medieval to 21st-century music, including surveys, for students with varying levels of musical knowledge and experience. I would enjoy planning courses that cover a variety of areas, including transmission and reception, modernism as transnational phenomenon, the intersections between Western art music and vernacular traditions, and the shifting relationships between musical institutions and their cultural contexts.
As a lifelong teacher who is committed to public service and working with members of diverse populations, I would look forward to serving the University of Washington community. Along with a colleague at Harvard, I applied for and received grant funds to establish the Harvard Mobile Music Lab, in which we teach various subjects through music to a diverse classroom of fourth graders in Boston. As a former Teach For America corps member who was recognized for teaching math through music to economically disadvantaged children, I would relish the opportunity to work with colleagues and students to inspire the next generation of musicians and scholars in Seattle and beyond.
Thank you for your consideration. I look forward to hearing from you.
Sincerely,
Vidita Chatterjee vchatterjee@xxx.harvard.edu, (617) 000-0123
123 Broadway Cambridge, MA 02139 USA
September 1, 2018
Dr. Bernhard Logan Chair, Department of the Languages and Cultures of China and Inner Asia Oxford University Thornhaugh Street, Russell Square Oxford MB1H 0XG United Kingdom
Dear Dr. Logan,
I am writing to apply for the Lectureship in Traditional Chinese Literature and Culture as advertised in the Chronicle of Higher Education. I am currently writing a dissertation at Harvard University under the direction of Professor Dorothy Denny, entitled “Qu Writing in Literati Communities: Rediscovering Sanqu Songs and Drama in Sixteenth-Century North China.” I will complete my dissertation by this spring and receive my Ph.D. in May, 2019.
My research focuses on Chinese vernacular literature of the later dynasties, especially on drama, sanqu, and fiction in the Yuan and the Ming dynasties. My dissertation, “Qu Writing in Literati Communities,” discusses the production, transmission, and reception of sanqu and drama in sixteenth-century North China, a literary world which remains largely unknown in current scholarship. I suggest a new approach in studying these songwriters and dramatists not as solitary writers, but as members of a larger circle who collectively participated in an association with one another through writing, reading, commenting on, and performing sanqu songs and drama. I call these groups of writers “qu communities.” Through this approach, we can see how songs and drama were produced, transmitted, and “used” among these writers, things less evident when we focus only on individual writers. I also argue that these qu communities constituted a textual space of their own, sharing common thematic concerns and stylistic preferences.
I see this project as the starting point for my long-term research goal of expanding the field of study of Chinese drama and songs beyond the focus in current scholarship on Yuan dynasty sanqu songs and late Ming drama in South China. My future research projects include a study of the Chinese dramatic tradition and its development from the fourteenth to the sixteenth century, as well as a project exploring the ritualistic and religious aspects of a significant number of Ming dynasty sanqu songs.
I received broad training in Chinese literature during my undergraduate education in the Department of Chinese Studies at the National University of Singapore. I specialize in Chinese vernacular literature in the later dynasties in my doctoral program at Harvard. At the
Te Ning’s letter is a good example of a highly tailored cover letter. She loosely follows the formulaic academic cover letter structure, but she chooses to expand on her relevant history, even as an undergraduate. She also refers to a presentation she gave at Oxford University, several years prior, to emphasize her connection with the institution. The letter also provides an excellent example of graceful transitions between paragraphs, something that is often difficult to achieve.
same time, I have actively taken seminar classes in the earlier periods of Chinese literature, ranging from the Shijing to the ci lyrics in the Tang and Song dynasties. My teaching experiences have also prepared me to teach a wide range of courses. As a teaching fellow at Harvard, I have taught sections for a survey course on Chinese civilization for the Core Program, and also for an undergraduate course on Chinese film, literature, and culture.
With this training and experience, I am prepared to teach survey courses on traditional Chinese literature and culture, and also more specialized courses on Chinese vernacular literature and the emergent popular culture of China in the later dynasties, focusing on drama, sanqu, vernacular fiction, and prosimetric literature. I will also be very interested in teaching Chinese language classes at all levels including literary Chinese, or offering reading courses conducted in Chinese language. I look forward to the opportunity to discuss with the department the design and development of courses based on my areas of specialty and also on what will best fit into the curriculum.
I presented a paper at a workshop at Oxford on “Literary Communities,” part of the research project “The Social Context of Literary Production and Consumption,” led by Professor Sonya Lee and Dr. Stefan Woolf and organized by the Centre for Asian and African Literatures in May 2017. My short stay in London over the workshop period has confirmed my knowledge of the dynamic academic environment and intellectual community at Oxford, of which I hope to be a part and toward which I hope to contribute.
I am enclosing my Employment Application Form and my curriculum vitae. You will receive letters of reference from Professors Dorothy Denny, Sing Wei Lung, and Robert S. Belwether under separate cover. Please let me know if I can provide additional information or materials such as a sample publication to aid you in the evaluation of my application. Thank you for considering my application, and I look forward to hearing from you.
Sincerely,
Te Ning Chang
Margot Page Cook Department of Mathematics
Harvard University 1 Oxford Street
Cambridge, MA 02138 mpcook@xxx.harvard.edu
617-123-4567
2 November 2018
Professor Cynthia Fern Chair, Mathematical Sciences Search Committee Dickinson College 134 Chapel Road Carlisle, PA 17013
Dear Professor Fern,
I am writing to apply for the tenure-track position in mathematics as advertised on the Employment Information in the Mathematical Sciences List. I am a graduate student at Harvard University working in Algebraic Combinatorics under the direction of Professor Stanton Lochs. I expect to complete my PhD by May 2019. My teaching, mentoring, and tutoring experiences, along with my research background, make me a strong candidate to teach both lower-level and upper-level mathematics courses and to make substantial contributions to the academic environment of Dickinson College.
My current research centers on enumerating shuffles of permutations. I am very excited to have solved the problem as originally posed, that is: if you shuffle two permutations words with each other, so as to preserve the relative order of the letters in each of the two words, how many distinct shuffle words can be obtained? I have found a formula that gives the number of such shuffles, even when the permutations are allowed to differ in length and am presently working on discovering generalizations. I propose to continue looking at the enumeration of various types of shuffles, but also to branch off into other problems in permutation enumeration. I believe that my projects will address topics that will also be accessible to undergraduate researchers, and I would be thrilled to have the chance to direct undergraduate research projects in combinatorics as well as guide independent studies in any mathematics-related area.
As my CV illustrates, I have a broad range of teaching experience, from extensive tutoring and individual mentoring to teaching undergraduate courses in Calculus and Linear Algebra with Differential Equations. In the undergraduate courses at Harvard, I prepare and deliver my own lectures
The tone and content of this letter are appropriate for a facult y position at a small liberal arts college. Margot has effectively communicated why she is a good fit for the position, while expressing enthusiasm for working at Dickinson. To express your interest in a school, in addition to the faculty or department, you might bring in your experience having lived in a similar geographic region, studied in a similar institution, experience or interest in working with a similar population of students, or personal reasons. Note, also, that Margot discus ses not only the courses she can teach and her pedagogical approaches, but she also indicates how her research would appeal to undergraduates. If she were an experimental scientist, it would be important for her to address not only how accessible her research is to undergraduates, but also how feasible it would be for the college to support the researc h facilities, equipment, etc.
thrice weekly, hold office hours and review sessions, help to write and grade exams, and am always accessible to students by email. One of the highlights of my teaching career was team-teaching a summer school course on proof from a seminar approach. Almost the entire course unfolded as student presentations and student-led discussions of assigned homework exercises, and I found it an invigorating challenge to tease out the difference between when I should interfere, give feedback, or gently nudge students in the right direction, and when they would learn more from my silent observation.
I embrace every teaching opportunity that I can find, and I have worked enthusiastically and effectively with students at a variety of levels. I believe in keeping all my courses and tutoring sessions student-centered, and so I focus on creating a dialogue with the students and to help them discover answers for themselves. Courses in your catalogue that I would particularly enjoy teaching include Precalculus, Calculus I, II, & III, Fundamental Mathematics I & II, Linear Algebra, Probability, Modern Geometry, Sequences and Series, Algebraic Structures, and the Senior Seminar. In addition, I would be glad to learn the material needed to teach courses such as Statistical Reasoning, Applied Statistics, and Mathematical Statistics.
I have found teaching at the college level very rewarding, and it is my goal to secure a position where I can put my energies into both mathematical inquiry and high-quality undergraduate education. I know that I could reach this goal at Dickinson College. My research interests in Algebraic and Enumerative Combinatorics would nicely complement those of your own faculty. Moreover, because my own undergraduate experience was broad, including majors in English and in French Literature as well as in Mathematics, I know that I would thrive in a liberal arts environment where I could distill the beauty of mathematics and make it readily accessible to others.
Enclosed you will find my CV, research and teaching statements, and copies of transcripts. A dossier of reference letters will arrive under separate cover. I can provide further evidence of teaching effectiveness, such as student evaluations, or other materials, on request. I will be giving a talk at the AMS Joint Mathematics Meetings in Washington, DC this January and will be available for an interview during the week of the conference, or by phone at any other time. I can be reached by email (mpcook@math.harvard.edu) or at 617-123-4567.
Thank you for your time and consideration. I look forward to hearing from you.
Yours sincerely,
Margot Page Cook Harvard University
54 Dunster Street Cambridge, MA 02138 (732) 000-0000 slkim@xxx.harvard.edu http://people.seas.harvard.edu/~slkim
November 1, 2018
Faculty Search Committee Department of Management Science and Engineering Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305
Dear Members of the Faculty Search Committee,
I am writing to apply for the tenure-track position of Assistant Professor in the Department of Management Science and Engineering at Stanford University. I am completing my Ph.D. in Computer Science in the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences at Harvard University. As a member of the Economics and Computer Science (EconCS) research group, I am particularly interested in the Information Science and Technology Group at Stanford, which currently contains several faculty members who are part of the EconCS research community.
My research interests lie at the intersection of computer science (particularly artificial intelligence) and economics (particularly microeconomic theory and game theory). My research contributions have been to design efficient and fair mechanisms for resource allocation, and to leverage machine learning and search methods in application to mechanism design.
I am excited about the opportunity to teach both undergraduate and graduate classes. I have had several enriching and rewarding teaching and advising experiences during graduate school, and I view teaching as an essential and enjoyable part of being a faculty member.
I have enclosed my CV, research and teaching statement, and representative published papers. I have asked the following people to write letters of recommendation on my behalf:
Charles Rosemont (advisor) rosemont@xxx.harvard.edu Funishi Okido Robert LaPrista Stephania Craft
okido@xxx.harvard.edu laprista@xxx.cmu.edu stephania.craft@xxx.ac.il
Thank you in advance for your consideration of my application.
Sincerely,
Sung Lim Kim
Cover letters in many quantitative fields are typically one page or less, with much less detail on research and teaching than is found in other fields. In some cases, a cover letter in these fields can be only one or two brief paragraphs, as candidacy tends to be evaluated by other parts of the application package, such as the research statement and publications. Sung Lim received an offer from a research university.
(via email)
Dear Dr. Keshilian -
My Ph.D. advisor, Martin Rothberg of Harvard Medical School, suggested I write to you to inquire about the possibility of a postdoctoral position in your laboratory. I am currently completing my Ph.D. in Immunology at Harvard, and expect to defend by May, 2019.
I am interested in immune responses to viral infection, and my research with Dr. Rothberg has concentrated upon defining the role of IL-21 in the development of CD8+ T cell responses to viral antigens. Using an in vitro system, we have demonstrated that IL-21 can induce Bcl-2-mediated apoptosis of memory CD8+ T cells specific for an SIV antigen. We have also demonstrated that IL-21 plays a crucial role in the development of primary and secondary responses to virally encoded antigens in IL-21Ra-deficient mice. This study has indicated that IL-21 directly stimulates CD8+ T cell proliferation and survival. Our in vitro work has been published in The Journal of Immunology and we anticipate submitting a manuscript describing our in vivo results soon. This work is described in more detail in my accompanying CV.
I hope to complement my understanding of the CD8+ T cell response to viral infection and CD8+ T cell apoptosis with postdoctoral training that furthers my understanding of innate immune responses to viral infections. I have followed your lab’s work in this area and am particularly interested in your work on autophagy, RLRs, and NLRs in viral infection. I would be very interested in working with you for my postdoctoral training to further my understanding of innate immune responses to viruses.
If you anticipate a position becoming available, I would greatly appreciate an opportunity to further discuss my research interests with you. I will be attending the upcoming Gordon Conference on Immunochemistry & Immunobiology in La Jolla, and I would be available to meet with you there or at UCSD that week.
Sincerely,
Melanie Porter This is a concise email inquiry about a potential postdoctoral position in the laboratory of Dr.Keshilian at University of California at San Diego.
As the email is going to an expert in her field (rather than to a disciplinarily-diverse committee), Melanie’s use of jargon is appropriate in this case.
Note that Melanie leaves open the possibility of meeting with Dr. Keshilian at an upcoming conference, but she could also have dropped the last sentence if she wasn’t already planning to be in the area.
