RESUMES & COVER LETTERS
Undergraduate Resource Series Mignone Center for Career Success | 54 Dunster Street
Harvard University | Faculty of Arts and Sciences mcs@fas.harvard.edu | careerservices.fas.harvard.edu
© 2023 President and Fellows of Harvard College All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced in any way without the express written permission of the Harvard University Faculty of Arts & Sciences Mignone Center for Career Success.
Mignone Center for Career Success Harvard University Faculty of Arts & Sciences Cambridge, MA 02138 mcs@fas.harvard.edu careerservices.fas.harvard.edu
08/23
-
RESUMES AND COVER LETTERS
Create a Strong Resume
Aresume is a concise, informative summary
of your abilities, education, and experience.
It should highlight your strongest assets and skills, and diferentiate you from other candidates seeking similar positions. Although it alone won’t get you a job or internship, a good resume is an important factor in obtaining an interview.
Tailor your resume to the type of position you’re seeking. Tis doesn’t mean that all of your experi-ences must relate directly, but your resume should refect the types of skills the employer would value.
RESUME TIPS
RESUME LANGUAGE SHOULD BE:
• Specifc rather than general • Active rather than passive • Written to express not impress • Articulate rather than “fowery”
•
Fact-based (quantify and qualify) • Written for people who scan quickly
DON’T: • Use personal pronouns (such as I) • Abbreviate • Use a narrative style • Use slang or colloquialisms • Include a picture • Include age or gender • List references • Start each line with a date
GETTING STARTED
Draf a resume using one of the templates on the MCS website. Attend a Resume Workshop to learn the nuts and bolts of getting started. See the MCS events calendar for dates. View the MCS Recorded Resume Webinar on our website.
•
Get advice via drop-ins. Monday-Friday, 1:00-4:00pm - ask quick career-related questions and have an advisor review your resume.
•
Look for industry specifc resume review clinics, listed on our events calendar in employer events.
TOP 6 RESUME MISTAKES: 1. Spelling and grammar errors 2. Missing email and phone information 3. Using passive language instead of “action” words 4. Not well organized, concise, or easy to skim 5. Not demonstrating results 6. Too long
DO: • Be consistent in format and content • Make it easy to read and follow, balancing white
space • Use consistent spacing, underlining, italics, bold,
and capitalization for emphasis • List headings (such as Experience) in order of
importance • Within headings, list information in reverse chron-
ological order (most recent frst) • Avoid information gaps such as a missing summer • Be sure that your formatting will translate properly
if converted to a .pdf
•
•
•
PLAN TO WORK INTERNATIONALLY? Resume guidelines can vary from country to country. See our international resources at the MCS website.
RESUMES AND COVER LETTERS
Action Verbs for your Resume
LEADERSHIP
Accomplished Achieved Contracted Coordinated Handled Headed Organized Oversaw Regulated Reorganized
Administered Delegated Impacted Planned Reviewed
Analyzed Developed Improved Predicted Scheduled
Assigned Directed Increased Prioritized Spearheaded
Attained Earned Led Produced Strengthened
Chaired Evaluated Mastered Proved Supervised
Consolidated Executed Orchestrated Recommended Surpassed
COMMUNICATION
Addressed Arbitrated Developed Directed Influenced Interpreted Presented Promoted Suggested Synthesized
Arranged Documented Lectured Publicized Translated
Authored Drafted Liaised Reconciled Verbalized
Collaborated Edited Mediated Recruited Wrote
Convinced Energized Moderated Reported
Corresponded Enlisted Negotiated Rewrote
Delivered Formulated Persuaded Spoke
RESEARCH
Clarified Diagnosed Interpreted Surveyed
Collected Discovered Interviewed Systematized
Concluded Evaluated Investigated Tested
Conducted Examined Modeled
Constructed Extracted Organized
Critiqued Formed Resolved
Derived Identified Reviewed
Determined Inspected Summarized
TECHNICAL
Assembled Installed Solved
Built Maintained Standardized
Calculated Operated Streamlined
Computed Optimized Upgraded
Designed Overhauled
Devised Programmed
Engineered Remodeled
Fabricated Repaired
TEACHING
Adapted Enabled Persuaded
Advised Encouraged Set Goals
Clarified Evaluated Stimulated
Coached Explained Studied
Communicated Facilitated Taught
Coordinated Guided Trained
Demystified Informed
Developed Instructed
QUANTITATIVE
Administered Allocated Computed Developed Projected Researched
Analyzed Forecasted
Appraised Managed
Audited Marketed
Balanced Maximized
Budgeted Minimized
Calculated Planned
CREATIVE
Acted Directed Introduced Revitalized
Composed Established Invented Shaped
Conceived Fashioned Originated Visualized
Conceptualized Founded Performed
Created Illustrated Planned
Customized Initiated Published
Designed Instituted Redesigned
Developed Integrated Revised
HELPING
Assessed Enhanced Provided
Assisted Expedited Referred
Clarified Facilitated Rehabilitated
Coached Familiarized Represented
Counseled Guided Served
Demonstrated Motivated Supported
Diagnosed Participated
Educated Proposed
ORGANIZATIONAL
Approved Accelerated Classified Collected Expanded Gained Operated Organized
Added Compiled Gathered Prepared
Arranged Completed Generated Processed
Broadened Controlled Implemented Purchased
Cataloged Defined Inspected Recorded
Centralized Dispatched Launched Reduced
Changed Executed Monitored Reinforced
account and check it frequently, even RESUMES AND COVER LETTERS if you have enabled forwarding.
If an employer asks for your SAT/ ACT scores or GPA, include in your Education section.
If including coursework, be sure it’s relevant to the position to which you’re applying.
Resume Sample
Firstname Lastname
17 Main Street • Los Angeles, CA 92720 • youremail@college.harvard.edu • (714) 558-9857
Education Harvard University Cambridge, MA A.B. Honors degree in History. GPA 3.73. May 2023 Relevant Coursework: International Political Economics and the European Community. Commit 25 hours per week to Harvard Varsity Field Hockey Program.
University of London London, UK Study abroad coursework in European History and Econometrics. May - August 2021
Los Angeles High School Los Angeles, CA Graduated with high honors. SAT I: M:780 V:760. June 2019 National Honor Society. Member of Varsity Field Hockey Team.
Experience Use diferent verbs.
participated in staff meetings and brainstorming sessions. Generated correspondence with top executive officers. Note that relevant interests and skills can be
Tech Hills demonstrated through campus and volunteer Laguna Hills, CA Technology Intern activities as well as through previous employment. May - August 2020 Implemented new web site, including back end database storage system and dynamic web pages.
Leadership Harvard Undergraduate Women in Business (WIB) Cambridge, MA Executive Committee Member February 2020 - Present Organized marketing and advertising campaign to increase membership. Coordinated business conference and networking reception for 50 business professionals and 500 students.
Harvard College Marathon Challenge Cambridge, MA Training Program Director January - May 2020 Developed training program for 25 charity runners. Raised over $25,000 to support Phillips Brooks House Association and The Cambridge Food Project.
Be consistent presenting data. Use Skills & Interests either numerals or words but not both. Technical: Microsoft Excel and Access, Stata, SQL, Java and HTML.
Language: Fluent French and Conversational Spanish. Interests: Ultimate Frisbee, Bhangra dance, and European films.
Pepsi-Cola North America Beverages Remote Marketing Analyst Intern May - August 2022 Examined profitability of foreign market for new fruit drink using analysis of comparable brands. Managed focus groups and consumer surveys gathering over 500 data points. Created ideas for niche marketing campaigns including use of social networks and viral marketing. Presented findings to senior managers using quantitative analysis and creative visuals in combined PowerPoint presentation.
Thomas Wilck Associates London, UK Assistant Account Executive May - August 2021 Researched and assembled requests for proposals for medium-sized public relations and communications firm. Actively
RESUMES AND COVER LETTERS
Optional category examples
You may wish to adopt these categories if relevant to your experience or the opportunity you are applying for. If you have signifcant experience in a specialized category, consider using that as your primary “Experience” section. Both paragraph and bulleted formats are options, but be consistent with the formatting within your resume. Students in creative and performing arts can develop resumes, portfolios, and websites to support their specifc job search. MCS advisors can help!
Leadership Experience Harvard Society of Black Scientists & Engineers Cambridge, MA President September 2022 - May 2023 Provided strategic direction and developed annual goals for this 90-member student group. Organized board and general meetings. Oversaw existing activities, programs, and collaborations with other student organizations. Represented group in Black Community Leaders Organization.
Harvard Computer Society Cambridge, MA Membership Coordinator / Board Member January - May 2022 Organized marketing and advertising campaign, resulting in 20% increase in membership. Coordinated tech conference and networking reception for 30 professionals and 75 students. Upgraded and enhanced website.
Public Service Experience Cambridge Department of Social Services Cambridge, MA Intern September 2022 – Present
•
Conduct site visits to local social service agencies to assist in evaluating effectiveness of service delivery. Observe experienced counselors and social workers in private settings with clients.
•
Analyze data to determine trends in service usage.
Phillips Brooks House Association Dorchester, MA Summer Urban Program Senior Counselor June – August 2022
•
Organized activities at summer camp encouraging academic achievement among inner city and under-resourced children. Managed $500 activities budget.
•
Produced and implemented curriculum for girls ages 11-12 exposing campers to female leaders in community, community service, and health education.
Technical Skills For tech (computer science) resumes, include Programming: C, C++, C#, SQL, R, Perl, Python, MATLAB, JavaScript, OCaml. Technical Skills afer the Education section. Operating Systems: Windows, MAC OS, and Linux. Web Design: Designed www.abc.com, www.xyz.com
Research Experience Stanford Nanotech Research Center Palo Alto, CA Research Intern June – August 2021 Project: Microfabrication of Thin-film Heaters to Simulate Hotspots.
•
Fabricated devices for testing effectiveness of nanoscale patch used to cool down hotspots on microprocessors.
•
Utilized cleanroom facilities to create devices with hotspot heater and temperature sensors to simulate heat generation.
Performing Arts Experience Mainly Jazz Dance Company Cambridge, MA Dancer / Choreographer October 2020 – Present Perform traditional jazz, lyrical, hip hop, funk, and modern dance at performances open to public throughout the year. Teach dance routines weekly to 20+ students at local elementary school.
Activities Lowell House Committee Cambridge, MA Member. Collaborate on social and community service activities. September 2020 – Present
Massachusetts General Hospital Boston, MA
RESUMES AND COVER LETTERS
Resume Template I (with bullet points)
Firstname Lastname
Home or Campus Street Address • City, State Zip • youremail@college.harvard.edu • phone number
Education Harvard University Cambridge, MA Degree, Concentration. GPA [Note: GPA is Optional] Graduation Date Thesis [Note: Optional] Relevant Coursework: [Note: Optional. Awards and honors can also be listed here.]
Study Abroad [Note: If Applicable] City, Country Study abroad coursework in _____. Month Year – Month Year
High School Name City, State [Note: May include GPA, SAT/ACT scores, or academic honors an employer may want to know] Graduation Date
Experience Organization City, State (or Remote) Position Title Month Year – Month Year
•
Beginning with your most recent position, describe your experience, skills, and resulting outcomes in bullet or paragraph form.
•
Begin each line with an action verb and include details that will help the reader understand your accomplishments, skills, knowledge, abilities, or achievements.
•
Quantify where possible.
•
Do not use personal pronouns; each line should be a phrase rather than a full sentence.
Organization City, State Position Title Month Year – Month Year
•
With your next-most recent position, describe your experience, skills, and resulting outcomes in bullet or paragraph form.
•
Begin each line with an action verb and include details that will help the reader understand your accomplishments, skills, knowledge, abilities, or achievements.
•
Quantify where possible.
•
Do not use personal pronouns; each line should be a phrase rather than a full sentence.
Leadership & Activities Organization City, State Role Month Year – Month Year
•
This section can be formatted similarly to the Experience section, or you can omit descriptions for activities.
•
If this section is more relevant to the opportunity you are applying for, consider moving this above your
Experience section.
Skills & Interests [Note: Optional] Technical: List computer software and programming languages Language: List foreign languages and your level of fluency Laboratory: List scientific / research lab techniques or tools [If Applicable] Interests: List activities you enjoy that may spark interview conversation
RESUMES AND COVER LETTERS
To help you design a strong resume, MCS ofers formatted templates. On the MCS website, search “templates” and click on MCS Guides and Templates. Choose bulleted or paragraph style, fll in your information, and then bring your draf to drop-ins for editing and feedback.
Resume Template II (paragraph format)
Firstname Lastname
Home or Campus Street Address • City, State Zip • youremail@college.harvard.edu • phone number
Education Harvard University Cambridge, MA Degree, Concentration. GPA [Note: GPA is Optional] Graduation Date Relevant Coursework or Thesis: [Note: Optional. Awards and honors can also be listed here.]
Study Abroad [Note: If Applicable] City, Country Study abroad coursework in _____. Month Year – Month Year
High School Name City, State [May include GPA, SAT scores, or academic honors an employer may want to know] Graduation Date
Experience Organization City, State (or Remote) Position Title Month Year – Month Year Beginning with your most recent position, describe your experience, skills, and resulting outcomes in bullet or paragraph form. [Note: Begin each line with an action verb and include details that will help the reader understand your accomplishments, skills, knowledge, abilities, or achievements. Quantify where possible. Do not use personal pronouns; each line should be a phrase rather than a full sentence.]
Organization City, State Position Title Month Year – Month Year With your next-most recent position, describe your experience, skills, and resulting outcomes in bullet or paragraph form. [Note: Begin each line with an action verb and include details that will help the reader understand your accomplishments, skills, knowledge, abilities, or achievements. Quantify where possible. Do not use personal pronouns; each line should be a phrase rather than a full sentence. Avoiding the use of articles can make your descriptions flow more smoothly.]
Leadership & Activities Organization City, State Role Month Year – Month Year [Note: This section can be formatted similarly to the Experience section, or you can omit descriptions for activities. If this section is more relevant to the opportunity you are applying for, consider moving this above your Experience section.]
Organization City, State Role Month Year – Month Year [Note: This section can be formatted similarly to the Experience section, or you can omit descriptions for activities. If this section is more relevant to the opportunity you are applying for, consider moving this above your Experience section.]
Skills & Interests [Note: Optional] Technical: List computer software and programming languages Language: List foreign languages and your level of fluency Laboratory: List scientific / research lab techniques or tools [If Applicable] Interests: List activities you enjoy that may spark interview conversation
RESUMES AND COVER LETTERS
Write an Effective Cover Letter
Your cover letter is a writing sample and a part of the screening process. By putting your best foot forward, you can increase your chances of being interviewed. A good way to create a response-producing cover letter is to highlight your skills or experiences that are most applicable to the job or industry and to tailor the letter to the specific organization to which you’re applying.
Date of Letter
Use complete Contact Name title and address. Contact Title
Company Name Street Address City, State, Zip Code
Address to a particular person Dear _________: if possible and remember to use Opening paragraph: Clearly state why you’re writing, name the a colon. position or type of work you’re exploring and, where applicable, how
you heard about the position or organization. A summary statement may work well here by including three reasons you think you would be a good ft for the opportunity.
Middle paragraph(s): Explain why you are interested in this employer Make the ad-and your reasons for desiring this type of work. If you’ve had relevant dressee want to school or work experience, be sure to point it out with one or two key read your resume. examples; but do not reiterate your entire resume. Emphasize skills or Be brief, but abilities that relate to the job. Be sure to do this in a confdent manner and remember that the reader will view your letter as an example of your writing skills.
specific.
Remind the Closing paragraph: Reiterate your interest in the position, and reader of what your enthusiasm for using your skills to contribute to the work you can do for of the organization. Thank the reader for their consideration of the organization. your application, and end by stating that you look forward to the
opportunity to further discuss the position.
Sincerely,
Your name typed
Some general rules about letters:
•
Address your letters to a specifc person if you can.
•
Tailor your letters to specifc situations or organizations by
doing research before writing your letters.
•
Keep letters concise and factual, no more than a single page.
Avoid fowery language.
•
Give examples that support your skills and qualifcations.
•
Put yourself in the reader’s shoes. What can you write that will
convince the reader that you are ready and able to do the job?
•
Don’t overuse the pronoun “I”.
•
Remember that this is a marketing tool. Use plenty of action
•
Have an MCS advisor provide feedback on your letter.
•
If converting to a .pdf, check that your formatting translates
correctly.
•
Reference skills or experiences from the job description and
draw connections to your credentials.
•
Make sure your resume and cover letter are prepared with the
same font type and size.
•
While you may be tempted to use a generative AI tool to
compose your letter, be deliberate and specifc with your prompts. Remember to edit the results carefully and add your
RESUMES AND COVER LETTERS
Sample Cover Letter
September 1, 2023
Morgan Smith Director of Communications Jumpstart 308 Congress Street, 6th Floor Boston, MA 02110
Dear Morgan Smith:
I am a senior at Harvard College studying History and Literature. I am writing to apply for the Marketing and Communications position at Jumpstart posted in Harvard’s Crimson Careers database. I'm very excited about the field of education, and would welcome the opportunity to bring my strong communication skills, creativity, and marketing experience to your growing team.
Jumpstart's commitment to early education for every child is of particular interest to me because of my passion for youth development. This past summer, I worked as a senior counselor in the Summer Urban Program, which is dedicated to preventing summer learning loss for children in the Boston and Cambridge area. I designed and taught fun, interactive classes to a group of 10 fifth graders, and planned and led local field trips and workshops daily with a junior counselor. Throughout the summer, I consistently strived to create math, science, and reading lessons and activities that were engaging and tailored to my students' needs.
Additionally, in my role as the Director of Marketing for the Social Innovation Collaborative, I led our team in creating a social media strategy to drive our member recruitment efforts and promote our programs and events on platforms including Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. With so many competing events on campus each day, I had to continually be creative in my approach to developing and delivering content that would be compelling and effective. As a result of my efforts, our group experienced a 20% increase in our membership base and a 15% increase in our social media engagement. I’m excited at the prospect of bringing the skills I developed through this experience to the Marketing and Communications role at Jumpstart.
Thank you for your consideration. I very much look forward to the opportunity to speak with you in person about my interest in this position.
Sincerely,
Alex Crimson